docs/index.mdx, before:

---
title: "Getting Started"
---

## Intro

Unpage is the open source framework for building SRE agents with infrastructure context and secure access to any dev tool.

Modern infrastructure is messy. Clusters, services, and databases all interact in ways that are hard to map and harder to document. To respond to alerts, automate ops, or build custom automations, agents need both **context** and **secure access** to your dev tools.

With Unpage, you can build production-ready SRE agents in minutes:

- **Define agents in YAML:** Configure how they respond to events.
- **Route intelligently:** Match alerts and requests to the right agent.
- **Give agents context:** Map your infrastructure with plugins and a knowledge graph.
- **Integrate securely:** Connect agents to logs, metrics, traces, infrastructure providers, and external tools via MCP or scoped shell access.

With these, you can build agents that act with real context and clear boundaries across incident response, ops automation, cost optimization, or developer self-service.

<Info>
  Unpage is **young.** It’s already useful today and growing quickly with community feedback.
</Info>

## Unpage Agents

Unpage agents are defined in natural language in YAML files. This is an example agent that investigates SSL/TLS connection failures and provides a summary on the incident:

```yaml expandable
# SSL-connection-failure-agent.yaml

# Description: Used by the router to determine which agent to use for the alert
description: Investigate SSL/TLS connection failures

# Prompt: Instructions for the agent to follow when acting on the alert
prompt: >
  - Extract the domain/hostname from the alert about connection failures.
  - Use shell command `shell_check_cert_expiration_date` to check the certificate expiration dates
  - Parse the certificate dates to determine if the cert is expired or expiring soon
  - If certificate is expired or expiring within 24 hours:
    - Post high-priority status update to the incident explaining the root cause
    - Include the exact expiration date and affected resources

# Tools: Allows the agent to use the specified tools during its investigation
tools: >
  - "shell_check_cert_expiration_date"
  - "pagerduty_post_status_update"
```

**Description**: When Unpage is running and receives an incident payload from your alerting tool, the router uses the agent description to determine which agent should act on the incident.

Learn more about Unpage's router [here](/concepts/router).

**Prompt:** The selected agent will follow the investigation steps listed in the prompt. This will often resemble a runbook for the type of alert.

**Tools**: In order to do its investigation, the agent uses tools to understand your infrastructure and retrieve more details about the alert, as needed. You can limit the tools that the agent has access to by specifying them in this section.

> Note: You can list all available tools by running `unpage mcp tools list`

Learn more about connecting plugins and tools [here](/concepts/plugins).

**Response:** In this case, the CPU alert agent will leave a comment on the incident:

> ROOT CAUSE IDENTIFIED: SSL certificate for domain ‘[expired-rsa-dv.ssl.com](http://expired-rsa-dv.ssl.com)’ is EXPIRED. Certificate expired on August 2, 2016 GMT (over 8 years ago). This explains the SSL connection failures. IMMEDIATE ACTION REQUIRED: Certificate renewal needed for affected domain to restore SSL connectivity.

You can customize your agents to automatically respond to different types of alerts and take different actions to address them. See more examples [here](/examples/ssl_connection_failure).

To create your first agent, install Unpage and run Quickstart. You'll have a handful of example agents to start from, or you can create your own\!

```shellscript
# Install Unpage
curl -fsSL https://install.unpage.ai | bash
```

```shellscript
# Quickstart
unpage agent quickstart
```

If you need help, you can find us in the [Unpage Slack community](https://join.slack.com/t/unpage/shared_invite/zt-3a85b8rnp-Hf1OIZq8SNu5FyrFhWaGQw) or follow along with this demo:

<iframe className="w-full aspect-video rounded-xl" src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/z17sHig2xMk?si=k_-tIa8YqGfX9sI3" title="YouTube video player" frameborder="0" allow="accelerometer; autoplay; clipboard-write; encrypted-media; gyroscope; picture-in-picture; web-share" referrerpolicy="strict-origin-when-cross-origin" allowfullscreen />

## Installation

On macOS:

```shell
curl -fsSL https://unpage.ai/install.sh | bash
```

For other platforms, first install `uv` using the [official uv installation guide](https://github.com/astral-sh/uv), then run the command above.

## Quickstart

To get started, run:

```shell
unpage agent quickstart
```

This will get you up and running with your first agent, which will automatically investigate and add context to alerts from PagerDuty ([or your preferred alerting provider](/plugins/customalerts)). You will also have a chance to set up your infrastructure knowledge graph to provide your agent with more context.

## Learn More

- [Test and run your agents](/commands/agent)
- [Set up your knowledge graph](/commands/graph)
- [Expand your agent's knowledge with custom scripts](/plugins/shell)

Have a request for the Unpage team? Let us know on [Slack](https://join.slack.com/t/unpage/shared_invite/zt-3a85b8rnp-Hf1OIZq8SNu5FyrFhWaGQw) or [GitHub](https://github.com/aptible/unpage/issues).

Commit message:

Add docs for disabling telemetry

docs/index.mdx, after:

---
title: "Getting Started"
---

## Intro

Unpage is the open source framework for building SRE agents with infrastructure context and secure access to any dev tool.

Modern infrastructure is messy. Clusters, services, and databases all interact in ways that are hard to map and harder to document. To respond to alerts, automate ops, or build custom automations, agents need both **context** and **secure access** to your dev tools.

With Unpage, you can build production-ready SRE agents in minutes:

- **Define agents in YAML:** Configure how they respond to events.
- **Route intelligently:** Match alerts and requests to the right agent.
- **Give agents context:** Map your infrastructure with plugins and a knowledge graph.
- **Integrate securely:** Connect agents to logs, metrics, traces, infrastructure providers, and external tools via MCP or scoped shell access.

With these, you can build agents that act with real context and clear boundaries across incident response, ops automation, cost optimization, or developer self-service.

<Info>
  Unpage is **young.** It’s already useful today and growing quickly with community feedback.
</Info>

## Unpage Agents

Unpage agents are defined in natural language in YAML files. This is an example agent that investigates SSL/TLS connection failures and provides a summary on the incident:

```yaml expandable
# SSL-connection-failure-agent.yaml

# Description: Used by the router to determine which agent to use for the alert
description: Investigate SSL/TLS connection failures

# Prompt: Instructions for the agent to follow when acting on the alert
prompt: >
  - Extract the domain/hostname from the alert about connection failures.
  - Use shell command `shell_check_cert_expiration_date` to check the certificate expiration dates
  - Parse the certificate dates to determine if the cert is expired or expiring soon
  - If certificate is expired or expiring within 24 hours:
    - Post high-priority status update to the incident explaining the root cause
    - Include the exact expiration date and affected resources

# Tools: Allows the agent to use the specified tools during its investigation
tools: >
  - "shell_check_cert_expiration_date"
  - "pagerduty_post_status_update"
```

**Description**: When Unpage is running and receives an incident payload from your alerting tool, the router uses the agent description to determine which agent should act on the incident.

Learn more about Unpage's router [here](/concepts/router).

**Prompt:** The selected agent will follow the investigation steps listed in the prompt. This will often resemble a runbook for the type of alert.

**Tools**: In order to do its investigation, the agent uses tools to understand your infrastructure and retrieve more details about the alert, as needed. You can limit the tools that the agent has access to by specifying them in this section.

> Note: You can list all available tools by running `unpage mcp tools list`

Learn more about connecting plugins and tools [here](/concepts/plugins).

**Response:** In this case, the CPU alert agent will leave a comment on the incident:

> ROOT CAUSE IDENTIFIED: SSL certificate for domain ‘[expired-rsa-dv.ssl.com](http://expired-rsa-dv.ssl.com)’ is EXPIRED. Certificate expired on August 2, 2016 GMT (over 8 years ago). This explains the SSL connection failures. IMMEDIATE ACTION REQUIRED: Certificate renewal needed for affected domain to restore SSL connectivity.

You can customize your agents to automatically respond to different types of alerts and take different actions to address them. See more examples [here](/examples/ssl_connection_failure).

To create your first agent, install Unpage and run Quickstart. You'll have a handful of example agents to start from, or you can create your own\!

```shellscript
# Install Unpage
curl -fsSL https://install.unpage.ai | bash
```

```shellscript
# Quickstart
unpage agent quickstart
```

If you need help, you can find us in the [Unpage Slack community](https://join.slack.com/t/unpage/shared_invite/zt-3a85b8rnp-Hf1OIZq8SNu5FyrFhWaGQw) or follow along with this demo:

<iframe className="w-full aspect-video rounded-xl" src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/z17sHig2xMk?si=k_-tIa8YqGfX9sI3" title="YouTube video player" frameborder="0" allow="accelerometer; autoplay; clipboard-write; encrypted-media; gyroscope; picture-in-picture; web-share" referrerpolicy="strict-origin-when-cross-origin" allowfullscreen />

## Installation

On macOS:

```shell
curl -fsSL https://unpage.ai/install.sh | bash
```

For other platforms, first install `uv` using the [official uv installation guide](https://github.com/astral-sh/uv), then run the command above.

## Quickstart

To get started, run:

```shell
unpage agent quickstart
```

This will get you up and running with your first agent, which will automatically investigate and add context to alerts from PagerDuty ([or your preferred alerting provider](/plugins/customalerts)). You will also have a chance to set up your infrastructure knowledge graph to provide your agent with more context.

## Usage Telemetry

Unpage collects anonymous usage telemetry to help us understand how the tool is being used and improve the product. This data helps us prioritize features and identify issues.

### What data is collected

Our telemetry includes:

- Unpage version information
- Operating system details (OS name and version, system architecture)
- Anonymous user identifier (generated UUID)
- Command names (but no potentially-sensitive arguments)

**No personal information, infrastructure details, or sensitive data is collected.**

### How to disable telemetry

You can disable telemetry in two ways:

**Option 1: Environment variable**
```shell
export UNPAGE_TELEMETRY_DISABLED=true
```

**Option 2: Configuration file**
Set `telemetry_enabled: false` in your Unpage configuration profile (typically at `~/.unpage/config.yaml`).

When telemetry is disabled, Unpage will display "Telemetry is disabled" to confirm that your preference is being respected.

## Learn More

- [Test and run your agents](/commands/agent)
- [Set up your knowledge graph](/commands/graph)
- [Expand your agent's knowledge with custom scripts](/plugins/shell)

Have a request for the Unpage team? Let us know on [Slack](https://join.slack.com/t/unpage/shared_invite/zt-3a85b8rnp-Hf1OIZq8SNu5FyrFhWaGQw) or [GitHub](https://github.com/aptible/unpage/issues).
